Tom: Hi, everybody.
Welcome to Impact Theory.
You're here my friends, because you believe
that human potential is nearly limitless,
but you know as I do that having potential
is not the same as actually doing something
with it.
Our goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas that
are going to help you actually execute on
your dreams.
All right, today's guest is a super level
badass.
Not only is she a full-time corporate attorney
at Global Powerhouse Apple, she is undeniably
one of the toughest humans alive.
It wasn't enough for her just to be a standout
attorney, so at 28 she go headlong into the
impossibly grueling sport of obstacle course
racing.
A sport where people actually die.
Since beginning, she has racked up what is
arguably the most impressive resume of any
female in the sport.
Her accomplishments prove that whatever men
can do, women can do just as well.
In her career, she's had 30 victories and
more than 50 podiums.
She's one of the 24-hour world's toughest
mother three times.
One of those victories coming just eight weeks
after knee surgery.
She was also the Spartan Race world champion
in 2013.
She's been the Spartan Race Points Series
champion twice and she has three times finished
the death race, a race that is literally designed
to break you and has the slogan, "You may
live."
Having now also survived 2016, where she dumped
her year of healing after fracturing her femur
from all of the racing and training, she has
begun to discover yet another talent sports
commentating.
Even though she could make a living as a sponsored
athlete and commentator, she maintains her
intense day job at Apple to ensure that she's
challenged both body and mind.
Please help me in welcoming the pop tart and
ketchup craving race ninja who has been called
the Michael Jordan of obstacle course racing,
Amelia Boone.
Amelia, thank you so much for coming in the
show.
Amelia: Thanks for having me.
Tom: It is an absolute pleasure.
Amelia: Yeah, I hope I can do an intro justice.
Tom: You've already done that intro justice.
It's really, really crazy what you've accomplished.
I'll be honest, the thing that I'm most interested
in, obviously 2016 was a brutal year for you,
but reading your blogs about what you've been
going through, I think is the thing that's
going to be most valuable to people.
You talk a lot about doing the hard things,
but tell us what have you learned from rock
bottom?
Amelia: Yeah, 2016 has been an interesting
year.
For me, it was a fracture in the femur where
I had an entire year planned and then just
everything was wiped from that.
For me, what I found is actually that hitting
rock bottom, that's the time where you are
forced to then really look inwards and discover
who you are.
It's great when you're on top, when you're
riding this wave, when you're winning race
after race.
It's easy to ignore the hard things.
It's easy to ignore your problems or to just
push them aside or to think, "I'll deal with
that later," or just you're riding this wave.
When you're sitting there and it's just you
and yourself, you have to confront that.
For me, that's what this entire year has been.
What's been so interesting to me actually
is that more people have come out to me and
said, "Yes, thank you.
You are relatable.
This has been so helpful to me."
I'm learning that the more that I let people
in and say, "Look, I go through hard times
too that I hit rock bottom, that I suffer,
and that I am vulnerable," that people relate
to that.
It's been amazing.
Tom: Is that meaningful to you to be able
to help other people through this by sharing
your journey?
Amelia: I think so.
I didn't start out that way, like when I started
out with obstacle race, and I didn't set out
to be an athlete.
For me, it was a fun jaunt with friends all
weekend.
Yeah, right.
Tom: A 10-mile obstacle course through mud.
Yeah, [crosstalk 00:04:08]
Amelia: Right.
It was like, "Hey, let's get electrocuted
by these wires, and cool, and have a beer
at the end and get a headband."
I didn't intend for it to turn into a second
career, such as when I got injured, I didn't
intend to necessarily help other people with
it.
When I realized the way that I deal with things
is through writing and through blogging, and
for me it was almost a personal diary and
a journal.
I'm like, "If people read it, great.
If they don't, fine."
For me, it's all about the process and healing
myself.
That's been incredible, that has been able
to help other people.
Tom: Yeah, it's amazing because when I started
the research, I didn't know that you'd gotten
injured.
Tim and I had talked about you.
He was on the podcast, he was wanting to put
you on my radar and then said the things that
you've accomplished were so incredible.
We were like, "Oh my God, we got to get her
on the show.
It could be really amazing."
I dive another research and I'm hearing all
the stuff that you win and all these interesting
questions, which we will get to about like,
"Why women do better in longer races," which
is utterly fascinating to me.
Then I discovered in realtime in the research
that you'd actually spent all of 2016 out
with an injury.
Then you quintupled an interest for me, because
watching you process it out loud and really
go through that, and talk about things like
fear and the lessons that you were learning
from that was actually really motivating and
inspiring for me.
What's a lesson that fear has taught you?
Amelia: I think that I have learned that if
something is fearful to you, then you need
to do it and you need to explore it.
Fear is a very powerful emotion.
There were so many things that I was afraid
of this past year with injury.
Tom: Like not being able to come back?
Amelia: Yeah.
I'm still, a 110% honest, I still struggle
with that every single day.
You lose that confidence as an athlete, whenever
you are knocked off of your pedestal or whatever
you're on your track and you're forced to
come back and question whether or not you
can, "get back to where you were."
That's something that you really have to work
through.
I've never really had to deal with that just
self-doubt.
I think for me, fear is teaching me almost
to reframe and to think that it's not getting
back to where I was, it's shaping myself as
a new person going forward and to realize
and to embrace those opportunities.
Tom: It's really incredible.
You actually put something up on your mirror
when the injury happened.
I forget the name of the book, forgive me,
but-
Amelia: Chery Strayed's, "Brave Enough."
Tom: Yes, thank you.
Perfect.
Here was a quote, "Fear, thank you for being
here.
You're my indication that I'm doing what I
need to do."
Why do you think it is that, because I am
obsessed with that notion, like that really
sits at the heart of my being and this show
makes me incredibly anxious.
When we were originally talking about doing
this, I was like, "Oh, dear God."
I don't know that I-
Amelia: Like, "I don't want to be in a camera."
Yeah.
Tom: I truly had no desire to be upfront.
That was not what I wanted to do, but because
it was one of those sayings that scared me
as much as it did and I have a rule in my
life, because I try to avoid pain so frequently,
that if it scares me, then I have to do it.
Just to become the person that I want to be,
right?
Because I'm a person left to my own natural
inclinations.
I'm very lazy.
I'm very fearful and I will just recede into
the background and accomplish nothing.
I found that the fear had something to do
with stakes and so I always put myself in
that situation.
When did you develop that notion of fear being
a guiding light?
How are you using it now through what you're
going through?
Amelia: It's interesting, because I actually
throughout childhood and growing up, I was
not a risk taker.
I still to this day, I don't consider myself
a risk taker.
A lot of people would say, "When you enter
that first 24-hour race in New Jersey in December,
and it was 20-degrees when you were going
through ice in the middle of the night," is
that not taking risks?
Tom: That's a fair question.
Amelia: I think that what I've realized is
I'm like, "Okay, well this is a calculated
risk?"
No, I try and justify it.
For me, confronting that fear, that first
of all, the first time you do it, it's so
paralyzing, but it becomes easier.
You realize that and if you incorporate that,
if you make it a practice, then the day to
day things become easier.
For me as a kid who was actually very fearful
and very I don't want to take risk, I want
to stay inside this shell and this is my life
plan and I literally probably when I was 13
years old, had my entire life planned out.
It is nowhere where I am right now.
Thank God it's not.
I think that it's been through the experiences
of challenging myself and through confronting
that head on and embracing the fear, and embracing
the pain that I've then come to where I am.
Tom: One of the stories you were telling you
said, "There's something to be said about
the [naivete 00:09:30] the beginner," and
that in the beginning I was actually less
afraid of obstacles than I am now like the
electricity, electric eel.
Did it make you blackout at one point?
Amelia: It did.
There's this awful-
Tom: It's the non-risk taker [crosstalk 00:09:44]?
Amelia: Right, yeah.
It's also one of those things that I think
that you look back now and I see that obstacle
and I'm petrified of it, because of those
experiences that you associated with.
I think at the time where you don't really
know what's going on, you're like, "Sure,
why not."
It's also the middle of the night and you're
exhausted, and you're not thinking straight,
so you might as well get slapped in the head.
Tom: I'm not sure I've ever had that thought.
Amelia: I think that a guiding light for me
has always been that I want to seek that next
challenge and that I want to constantly find
a new hard thing.
When I, the ripe old age of 28 started to
become, "A professional athlete."
It was just this new challenge for me.
It was, "How can I do that?"
Everything that I encounter, whether it was
that obstacle on that course that scared the
hell out of me, was going to be pushing myself
to that new limit.
Tom: Do you think about identity at all?
Like your own identity?
Amelia: I do.
Actually, what's interesting is that I don't
know how to introduce myself to people, because
it also depends on who I'm talking to.
Tom: That's interesting.
Amelia: You meet people at a party and I say,
"Hi, I'm Amelia."
"Amelia, what do you do?"
Most people will give their profession.
Most people say, five years ago they said,
"Amelia, I'm an attorney."
Or this time around a bunch of athletes, do
I say, "I'm an obstacle racer."
Do I say, "I'm a ... " I go through this notion
of what I am.
I like that I don't have to define it and
I don't want to define it.
I don't like the labels, because I've realized
now that I don't have to narrowly define myself
in a box.
Then I can constantly reinvent myself.
I feel like not enough people do that or give
themselves the opportunities to do that.
Tom: Yeah, reinvention to me has been really
important in my life.
The way that I think about identity is maybe
adjacent to that, which is I have this vision
in my head about who I want to become.
Part of the reason that I have to do the things
that scare me is because the person that I
want to become would do those things and that
as I tell myself, and I don't know if this
is just me or if a lot of people do this,
but I'm always telling myself a story about
myself like, "You're the type of person that
does that.
You get out of bed fast.
You do this.
You do things that scare you," all of that
to create this self-fulfilling prophecy in
myself.
That's why it was so interesting for me to
hear that you would think that as you're doing
these obstacle races that they would get easier.
When you're saying that in some ways, they
actually get more difficult, that was really
fascinating.
You have a super interesting way of dealing
with that, which I'll call, "Chunking."
I don't know if you could use that word.
Amelia: I'll take that.
I'm a huge Goonies fan, so when it came out
it's like, "Truffle, shuffle, and chunk."
Tom: You'll go with?
Amelia: I'll go with, yes.
Tom: You break things up into small pieces?
Amelia: Yeah.
I find that people get ... If you look at
the entirety of a task, it's very easy to
get overwhelmed.
For me, you start a 24-hour race, so you start
a 100-mile race and you look at the clock
and you realize, "I have 22 hours left to
go and I'm exhausted right now."
That's overwhelming.
That's when people quit.
Instead, in my mind, I think, "Okay, if I'm
going through a really rough patch in a race,
because things ebbs and flows, I think just
get to the next obstacle.
Just get to the next obstacle.
Just get to the next lap and not think about
the entire, the grand scheme of things."
It's just these little compartmentalized in
things.
When you're going through so much pain and
when you're going through a hardship, that's
the thing that keeps me saying, "Is just to
not think about the end games, not try and
think about two days from now when this race
will be over," but just enough task at hand.
Tom: Is there a certain way that you want
to be when it comes to pain?
Like, "I want to charge through pain," or
how do you conceptualize pain?
Amelia: I make friends with pain.
I think that pain is something that we're
so fearful of.
We spend so much money trying to avoid pain
and, which is funny, because I think a lot
of the rise of these endurance races and obstacles
races is interesting as our lives would become
easier and we're able to avoid pain.
People are actually paying to seek out pain.
Tom: It's interesting.
I've never thought of it like that.
Amelia: Right.
There's a fantastic documentary that I'm a
part of called, "The Rise of the Sufferfests,"
where the director actually chronicles the
rise of these races.
It's a good look at it.
I make friends with pain, because I think
pain is something that teaches us so many
lessons.
During a race, if I'm like, "Okay, all right,
my right hip hurts right now.
All right, right hip, how are you doing?"
I actually will talk to my body.
Then you work through it.
It's a process.
I actually find that it changes.
There have been times where I started a 24-hour
race and my calf starting seizing out and
how am I going to make it through 24 hours?
10-miles later, the calf is fine.
I was onto the next thing.
There's such a mind body connection, that
if you can talk to your physical pain, I find
it's much easier to deal with.
Tom: Do you think mental toughness can be
cultivated?
Amelia: I absolutely think so.
Tom: What's that process?
Amelia: For me, I think that it's doing the
hard things.
It's not taking the easy way out.
Tom: Do you like to make a list?
Like, "These are the hard things."
Amelia: No.
I think that the hard things are different
for everyone.
I think that you know, because you go back
to that notion of fear.
If you're fearful of it, that's a hard thing
for you.
For instance, I realized very early on when
I was trying to become an attorney that I
always had this notion that I want to be a
prosecutor and on stage, and things like that.
I realized, "I don't do public speaking very
well."
That would seize up and it was awful for me.
I hadn't-
Tom: It seems like I've seen you do public
speaking very, very well.
Amelia: It's one of those things that I've
had to cultivate and it's one of those things
that I've had to practice.
I think that the hard things give you cultivate
that mental toughness.
People say, "Okay, how do I make it a habit?
How do I cultivate mental toughness?"
I say, "That's what you do.
You make it a habit."
It's that you don't give yourself the option
and it's something, you pick something, put
it into your routine whether it's waking up
30 minutes earlier everyday so you can actually
get out the door to move your body.
You just don't think about it.
You don't give yourself the option to not
do it.
Tom: All right, talk to me about training
in non-ideal conditions, because that's one
of the tactics you use, right?
Amelia: Right.
Yes.
Training when it's raining outside.
There are a lot of people if it's raining,
if it's snowing will say, "I'll get on the
treadmill today."
Why?
That's easy and it's boring.
I love running when it's cold, running when
it's dark.
Tom: Because you know you're getting more
tough that's why you love it?
Amelia: Also, part of me, I feel more alive.
I like to be out on nature, and so I feel
more alive.
I also think that, yeah it forces you to go
through hard things in non-ideal conditions
that then yes indirectly help cultivate ... Toughness
is a weird nebulous word and there's so many
different things that can go into that.
I think what it does is that it cultivates
a willingness, and a drive, and a discipline
to get through those things.
I think now, I'm like, "Okay, I used to live
in Chicago and I would go out and run when
it's -10 degrees."
If I can do that, I can definitely go out
and run in San Francisco when it's 60-degrees
and raining.
It's all about comparisons.
Tom: One of the writers that had written an
article about you said, I don't know if you
said this to him or if he just made it up.
He said, "I think she runs in the rain and
when it's cold, because she knows that her
competitors are packing it up and going inside."
Is that true?
Amelia: Maybe it used to be true, but now,
no longer.
I think maybe I let out all my secrets and
no one ever else is doing it.
Yeah, I used to when I was training for World's
Toughest Mother that first year and we all
ran in wetsuits, because you have to, because
it's freezing cold and you're in and out of
water, and you lose all your body heat over
24 hours.
I would take my wetsuit out and go run around
in Chicago when it was 30-degrees and jump
in and out of the lake.
No one else was doing that.
Tom: What a surprise.
Amelia: I know.
Actually, the police officers really didn't
like it.
It's weird to show.
Those are the things that make you uncomfortable
and like we said, that uncomfortable tells
you, "Okay, that's what I need to be doing."
Tom: What I love about that is it's so simple,
right?
How do you deal with the things that are uncomfortable
or that you need to get more tough?
You go out and do them, right?
Amelia: Right.
Tom: You set the alarm, you get up 30 minutes
earlier, you put your wetsuit on, you run
when it's raining, you jump in the lake, things
that obviously are unpleasant, but in their
unpleasantness actually they begin to toughen
you.
Have you read Angela Duckworth's book, Grit?
Amelia: No, I haven't.
I have a list, like a list of books of mine
along and it's on there.
It's moving up.
Tom: Yeah, you could have been interviewed
for the book.
I don't think there's any argument about that,
but it's just an amazing scientific recounting
of why it works, what's it play, how you actually
develop it.
I think she was really one of the first people
to say that grit is a muscle.
I think people think that a lot of foundational
things, like internal fortitude, you whether
have or you don't.
She really laid out like that is just not
true that you really can develop your grit.
Is it again easier for you to jump in the
lake for instance, which I'm sure the first
time was pretty hard or is it actually maintained
it's difficult to be you just demand it?
Amelia: It comes and goes.
I think there's certain things that definitely
get easier, but then there are also things
that it's funny, I don't ... People always
ask me if I do all the cold exposure and ice
bags, and things like that.
Honestly, I have been so cold in all of these
races and so miserable, that I almost prefer
I'm like, "Unless there's a race on the line,
I like my hot showers."
It's this give and take about when I'm willing
to and when I'm not.
It definitely is this one of those things
that I think that you can get out of practice
if you're not constantly exposing yourself
to those conditions, that it can be very pleasant
and great.
Then you realize, you're like, "Oh no, wait.
Wait, let's flex that muscle again.
Let's train it."
Tom: That's interesting.
Do you have a set routine that you do as you
prepare for something?
Do you cycle through those things like, "Now
is the time to be cold.
Now is the time to do ultra long distance."
How do you prep?
What does that look like?
Amelia: Yeah.
I think it definitely depends on the race
and exactly what I'm going for.
I think yes, in terms of training, I cycle
through various points in the year in terms
of building strength, and then in terms of
building mileage, and then backing those down.
Because what's interesting about obstacle
racing is that you have to be such a well-rounded
athlete and we have to mix this ultimate mix
of speed, and strength, and skill, and endurance.
If you're a runner, if you go run a marathon,
you never really need to train your upper
body, but we're crawling over things and jumping
over things, and so you have to be so well-rounded.
It's this fun little game of figuring out
the right combination.
Tom: I love that you call it a fun game.
People watching right now almost certainly
are dismissing you as just being, "She's so
gifted athletically.
Of course, she's doing well at this," but
you actually couldn't do a pull-up when you
started these courses, if I'm not mistaken?
Amelia: No.
I was very, very weak in terms of [absolute
training 00:22:43].
I spent six months trying to do a pull-up
to prepare for the race.
I couldn't do it.
I went onto that race and I fell off all the
obstacles, I had no strength, and I loved
it though, because to me, I all of a sudden
had this new challenge in front of me.
I was like, "I was really bad at that.
Let's try and get better."
I didn't come from a stellar athletic background
or anything like that, but I all of a sudden
found this new purpose.
I was [crosstalk 00:23:14].
Tom: When did you develop that, that you would
look at something that you failed at that
you tried for six months and still failed
and go, "Wow, now I'm excited because I have
this challenge."
Amelia: A part of me has always had that.
I don't like failure.
Nobody likes failure, fine.
It's one of those things where it's almost
like I wanted to write it.
It was one of those things that I failed at
that and now it is going to be my new task
to achieve that, to go do that.
I think that that was one of the first things
that I realized of what really drew me to
this.
Tom: Yeah, I loved when I came across that,
because I did assume that, oh you must have
been athletically gifted.
Your physique is ridiculous and just crazy.
As somebody being a quest and having worked
in the health and fitness industry like, "I
know physique."
Reading that you had started so far back from
that was really interesting.
To me, when you hit that moment where you're
really bad at something, you've got two choices.
Choice one is the easy choice, it's the ever
present choice, which is "avoid."
I did not like that.
I don't like failure.
Just like you said, everybody hates it.
Most people do that left turn right there
and they say, "Okay, well, I'm not going to
be doing that again.
There's a really interesting psychological
principle, which is to say, "Okay, well, now
I'm going to look at this as a challenge.
I understand that the body, the mind can adapt.
I'm going to develop this new skill."
People that are able to do that either just
they have it in them or they cultivate that
in themselves, it's astonishing to see how
far they end up going.
Amelia: To this day, I still have to do it.
For instance, when I broke the femur, there
is very little I could do physically, because
bum leg, of course.
They said, "You can get in the pool and you
can swim with a pool buoy between your legs."
I don't know if you've ever spent any time
swimming with pool buoy between your legs,
but it's really boring.
It was the only thing that I could do.
I'm not a swimmer.
I don't frankly like swimming, but it was
my option.
I sat there and I go, "All right, we're going
to make friends with the pool."
Really, for this past year, I have ... To
me, swimming is that hard thing, that failure
thing, because I'm not good at it, and I don't
like not being good at things.
Over this past year, I've grown to actually
crave that time and in that pool and to do
that.
There are things that I'm awful lot in my
flip turns.
I look like a drowning corpus.
It's really, really gnarly.
If any of the swim coach looked at me and
they'd be like, "Oh my God."
To me, it was a way, especially in injury
to tackle a new challenge and to recognize,
and actually to be very humble about where
I was and what I could do.
I think that that makes you so appreciative
of everything else in life for sure.
Tom: Other than swimming, what is something
that you're taking on as a challenge?
Amelia: This past year, I've actually gotten
into meditation as well, which is also something
that I've always [shootist 00:26:26].
To me, running was my meditation.
I always looked at my early morning runs as
my way to clear my mind, but the idea of sitting
still and just thinking nothing, to me it
was frightening.
I'm horrific at meditation.
Sometimes I fall asleep.
Sometimes it's 10 minutes later and I realized
that I've been planning my day, "Oh crap,"
but I still do it every single day.
Thinking that someday it will get easier.
Tom: You're a big believer in the power of
routine?
Amelia: I am a huge believer in the power
of routine.
For me, there are so many decisions that need
to be made in life.
You cannot encounter that idea of decision
fatigue, so routine for me, it takes away
some of those decisions, so just becomes automatic.
I feel best when I go through just have a
set planned.
That to me is the power routine, is really
taking away those decisions that you have
to make up, make every morning, and so you
can focus your energy on the big decisions
and what really needs your attention not,
"What am I going to eat today?
What time am I going to wake up?"
Tom: Since your injury, have you thought at
all differently about work and what you're
doing as an attorney?
Amelia: Yes.
For me, the injury made me very, very grateful
that I was more than just enough.
That to me, it was a time to also recognize
and reconnect to what I love about being an
attorney as well.
What's interesting to me is that I actually
found it's sometimes harder to work, because
I didn't have the other ball in the air, for
instance.
Tom: You've talked about that.
Amelia: That I am more productive when I am
juggling multiple things.
Tom: Why?
Amelia: I think it forces you to be efficient.
It's that if you know if I know, "Look, I
have to get out tomorrow morning to train
at four o'clock, so I need to get in bed by
X time, so I need to get all my work done,
my attorney work done by X time so I can do
that."
Whereas if you don't have that, then just,
"Oh, I can procrastinate a little bit.
I can take my time, blah, blah, blah."
I found that I'm more productive when I am
juggling multiple things.
Tom: That's really interesting.
Talk to me about self-flagellation a little
bit, which you've written quite eloquently
about.
Yeah, what have you learned?
Amelia: Yeah, so I've talked about this, I
call it, "The merry-go-round of self-flagellation."
Let's say you're feeling bad about something,
you're feeling bad about a failure, or for
me, I sat there after the femur and I knew
that it was my fault.
I had run myself into a fracture in my femur.
I went back through my mind all of the ways
that I could've changed that.
You get on this merry-go-round as I called
it of you already feel bad that you screwed
up and that you wrecked your entire season.
Then you feel bad, because you feel bad and
so you beat yourself up over feeling that
and just spirals into the circle and you can't
get off of it.
For me, I've had to step back and almost detach
myself and realize when I get into this story
that I'm telling myself, and just stop it.
It's really hard.
I think we all do it.
Tom: Do you have technique of these?
Amelia: I think really I try to depersonalize
it and detach it and to realize I almost think
of myself as a third person and say, "Okay
Amelia, you're on that right now.
Stop."
If one of my friends came to me and said that
they were doing that to themselves, I'll be
like, "Get off of it."
That's the past.
You can't change that.
Beating yourself up over, something that happened
in the past isn't going to change it.
Tom: What advice would you give to somebody
in your shoes, a true world class athlete,
they've had this catastrophic injury, what's
your advice to them?
In that moment of uncertainty, when they don't
know if they're going to be able to come back
or not?
Amelia: I think really, it's acceptance is
where you need to end up.
You talk about it in stages of grief.
Everyone talks about injury is like the stages
of grief after death almost not to be that
traumatic.
To realize that it's okay how you're feeling
and kick, scream, cry, do whatever it is you
need to do, let it out.
Give yourself a time limit.
I said after my injury and I was miserable,
and I was just a bear to be around, but I
told myself, "Okay, I'm going to give myself
two weeks to be an awful person about this."
Then you know what?
I'm going to pick up and move on and say,
"What can I do now in this scenario?"
Really what it was and what I found is I cut
myself off and then I looked out, "How can
I make the best of this situation?"
For me, that ended up in being able to do
commentary work, and being able to be on the
course beyond the sideline to support my fellow
athletes, and actually take joy in their accomplishments,
in their victories instead of seeing them
as competitors.
It's about reframing what you can do in that
moment.
Tom: All right, so you brought up strong women,
which we have to go deep into.
Why do women do better the longer the race?
Amelia: Women are better at suffering.
I don't know if that's just because we, maybe
childbirth, I don't know.
I don't necessarily think that women are tougher
or women have more mental grit, but there's
this definitely phenomena.
You see, as the longer the race gets, the
gaps on a time between men and women tend
to lessen.
You see a lot of women winning very long races
outright.
I think that maybe, I don't have the ... If
I have the answers, I would probably be in
a different field.
I'd be in some type of psychological expert
and I'm so and so or physiological expert.
For me, I've really found that women have
this ability to really pull down deep.
I think for me, I realized that there's a
lot of things physically that I can't do on
the same level as men, so-
Tom: From a brute strength perspective?
Amelia: From brutes and I'm not going to compete
with dudes in a squat contest or a bench press.
It's not going to happen, but what I can do
is outlast you.
That is something that I really, I don't know,
maybe it's a chip on my shoulder, but that's
really what drives me through those races.
I think that maybe women, there have been
so many instances where we are told we can't,
or we haven't, or that's not what things that
you're good at, that you carry that chip on
your shoulder and so in these long races,
it comes out.
Tom: I love that.
How do you use the chip on your shoulder effectively
and not let it be just bitterness?
Amelia: Exactly.
I think it's a very hard fine line to not
cross over into.
I think for me, it's always thinking you're
the underdog, is an effective way to do it,
even when you're not.
Everyone likes being the underdog.
I loved it when I first came into this and
nobody knows who you are and then all of a
sudden you're there.
"Damn, and who is this woman?"
It's keeping that underdog mentality even
when you're not.
I think for me, for instance when I was also
on the top of the sport and winning everything
and doing that, I still always try to view
myself as the underdog.
That's hard to do, because you have the target
on your back, but just keeping that mentality
for me has been very helpful.
Tom: You said that women can really dig deep.
Is there any of that, that you can articulate?
I know you use a distraction technique to
keep yourself focused.
What are some other techniques that are the
active digging deep?
Amelia: Yeah, for me, I think the digging
deep and races also comes up in interacting
with those around you.
The distraction in terms of compartmentalizing,
chunking the race, but then also just stopping
to think entirely and by doing that by interacting
with those racers around you.
That's great thing about long races is that
you have time to chat with people, because
you're out there for so long and you're going
out a slow enough pace.
I always try and if I'm running the same pace,
another competitor, "How are you doing?
Where you from?
How are you feeling?"
Getting to know them.
Sooner or later, you realize that a few miles
have gone by and you haven't been thinking
about yourself, you've been thinking about
other people.
I think that that's very powerful is if you
take the focus off of yourself and focus on
others, you can almost ignore the pain that
you're going through.
I don't know.
Maybe women as women are more stereotypically
more nurturing, more caring, that ability
to then tap into other people.
I don't know.
No one's ever described me as extremely nurturing.
It's not like number one attribute, but I
do generally enjoy getting to know other people
and learning about other people.
Tom: Yeah, that's interesting.
To your point about, I guess if we could really
explain this, we'd be in a different field,
but as somebody who's married to a woman who
is just gritty beyond reason and really beyond
reason, and will to the point like you, she'll
get injured and she'll keep working out, and
she'll be like, "Yeah, tomorrow for sure I'm
taking tomorrow," and I wake up to the sound
of weights clanking down.
I'm like, "Wait a second, I thought you're
taking the day off?"
"Yeah, no I felt good."
I pride myself and my ability to suffer, I
can suffer my friend, but my wife?
It is inhuman, I guess really crazy.
Amelia: It is, but what's interesting and
what I've learned is that there is a difference
of what ... The thing that has made me so
great at this sport, my ability to suffer
my ability to brace pain is also my greatest
downfall.
It's also my greatest weakness, because I
will push myself past the part point of being
smart.
That is what has led to injury for me.
This past year, I've had to realize like,
"It's okay to rest.
It's okay to take a few days.
It's okay to take a few weeks or few months
and actually take care of your body."
That's almost become such a dirty word for
some of us, that four letter word of rust
is the worst four letter word out there.
It's sometimes the hardest thing, the hardest
thing for me this past year has been to take
care of my body.
It's interesting how that goes around and
comes around.
Tom: Do you ever struggle with knowing if
you're resting because it's the right thing
or you're resting because you want to be lazy?
Amelia: No, I don't.
Tom: That's my big downfall.
Amelia: Really?
Tom: That's why I push myself past the point
of what some people consider reasonable, because
in my head is a voice that is so catastrophically
lazy, that I have to push like my wife will
be telling me, "You're sick.
You need to rest."
I can't let myself do it, because that's what
I want so badly.
I've learned that doing what feels good is
rarely the thing that moves me towards my
goals.
Amelia: Right.
Yeah, I struggle more with that if I'm resting,
I feel lazy and I hate that.
I'm saying we've associated rest with laziness,
which isn't the case necessarily.
I'm trying to create this Twitter movement
of epic rest days or rest day [inaudible 00:39:17],
because people go out there and they are like,
"I'm bragging about this 30-mile or I just
crashed and it's so epic bro."
I'm like, "You know what?
I walked a thousand steps today.
I ate a tub of ice cream, [#restdayrest 00:39:33].
It's not so bad.
It's about balance, right?
Tom: Right.
No, that's really interesting.
My wife and I actually get in fights with
each other, because from the rationale perspective,
the other person seems crazy.
When she is pushing herself to ridiculous
extremes like, "What are you doing?"
Her retort is always, "This is exactly what
you do when you're sick."
It's like, "Okay, that's a little harder to
argue."
Amelia: It's very easy for me to dish out
advice to other people, it's so hard for me
to take it.
I think that, that's also something I've really
tried to do this past year is try to live
authentically, to lead by example, and to
make sure that if I'm telling somebody something
that this is what they should do X, Y, and
Z, that I'm also doing it myself.
I feel like there's so many people out there
that can spew advice and they can set up a
life that looks so perfect on the outside.
They can create anything through social media,
but it's not authentic, and there's that weird
disconnect and I hate that.
For me, this past year especially, admitting
vulnerability and admitting when I'm struggling
is part of that entire trying to live authentically.
Tom: What would you say to a young girl who
struggles with just feeling inadequate?
Amelia: I can imagine being a teenager right
now.
I remember how hard it was for me at that
age.
Now with social media, it boggles my mind.
I think especially for younger girls, it's
about, "Don't limit yourself.
Don't label yourself.
Constantly try and break boundaries and barriers.
You don't have to choose."
I think for me, one of the greatest compliments
I can get and I never set out for this are
people that come to me and parents that come
to me and say, "We struggle for female role
models in this world.
Thank you for being a female role model for
our daughter, something that can use their
brains, can use their body."
I never set out to be a role model, but to
me that's so powerful.
I, especially for younger girls is that don't
label yourself.
Don't give into what is popular, because what's
popular is definitely not necessarily not
what's right.
Challenge yourself physically.
Challenge yourself mentally and look to break
those barriers.
That to me is you see a strong ... When I
see images of strong girls coming to races,
you have all these girls now interested in
obstacles racing and that's phenomenal to
me, because it's about being functional.
It's not about looking a certain way, it's
about what your body can do for you and achieving
things, and carrying heavy things, and surviving
hours in the woods.
Tom: It really is a pretty incredible test.
Talk to me though about when racing stop being
fun for you at least for a minute?
Amelia: Yeah, so people always ask me, "Now,
would you quit being an attorney to be a full-time
racer?"
I never really seriously considered it for
a number of reasons.
One of them is also racing to me has always
been the stress release.
It's always been my outlet.
As soon as you start making it your bread
and what puts food on the table, it becomes
not fun.
That was the reason why I always kept all
that.
Tom: How do you think that robs the fun out
of it?
Amelia: Because it no longer is just winning
just the cool thing, it's then winning because
of the expectation and there's that pressure
that surrounds it.
I avoided that scenario, but I think for me
racing, I went through a period where racing
stopped being fun because I felt like if I
wasn't winning, I was letting everyone else
down, that it was expected that I was on the
top of that podium.
That all of a sudden, when I got 4th at Spartan
Race World Championships, people, and I was
supposed to win, it was like, "What happened
to Amelia?"
I was just like, "Guys, I got 4th."
Tom: It's actually not so bad.
Amelia: I know.
It was this, all of a sudden what I realized
is I was letting other people's expectations
get to me, as supposed to just thinking about
myself.
I race because I love it, whether that's winning
a race or whether that's coming in dead last,
whether that's doing a race on crutches.
It's really trying to just harness in on the
original reasons that I started all this.
Tom: If you had to define confidence, how
would you define it?
Amelia: Confidence for me is not making apologies
for how you're living or what you're doing.
Tom: Not even feeling like you have to or
just not doing it?
Amelia: Just being able to make decisions
and to own that, and to not care about all
the noise.
They may be the wrong decisions, but you need
to stand by them, for me.
Tom: All right.
When you had the injury and everything, you
said that it really, really shook your confidence.
How did you rebuild it?
What does that process look like?
Amelia: Honestly, I'm still working through
it.
I'll let you know in a few months, but to
me, it's celebrating the little victories
for sure.
The first time that I-
Tom: Letting those build like momentum and
confidence in you?
Amelia: Yes, for sure, because every single
little victory is going to create that bigger
sense of self.
That first run back where I did a mile, and
it was high-five.
I thought like I had just run a hundred miles,
but it was that little wave, that if you can
keep building on those.
Unfortunately, it's never going to be a smooth
linear progression.
Those little setbacks are the times where
you need to realize, "Okay, it's just a bleep
on the radar.
It's going to look like this, but as long
as you can see that goal towards the end and
embrace that process, that's really how I've
been rebuilding it."
Tom: That's really incredible.
If you were in Stephen Hawking situation,
what would you shift your attention to?
Amelia: Yeah, so I've actually asked, if I
couldn't race and if I couldn't express myself
physically, because I've talked about it,
is that I've ... When I haven't been able
to use my legs, I've had to use my voice.
What's really been empowering for me this
past year is to be an advocate for the sport,
be an advocate for obstacle racing.
It's such a new sport.
We have such an opportunity as athletes to
help shape it in where it goes and will it
make it to the Olympics or what will it do?
For me, it would be shaping that.
Also, really, I'm really passionate about
women in sport and about women and women equality
in sport, things like that.
It's using that voice.
Tom: How do you think we get to that?
Amelia: Man, that's been a question for how
many years at this point.
We've come a long way, but it's really just
more and more, it's women standing up, but
it's also men standing up.
It's everyone regardless of making sure that
price pursues for women are the same across
genders.
You see some sports where men get a hundred
thousand dollars and women get $50,000 for
winning the same freaking race.
I don't get it.
That is something that there needs to be a
constant dialog about it.
Unfortunately, we're still not there, but
we're getting there.
Tom: I know the quorum is going to force you
to give me a really humble answer to this
question and I'll maybe push you a bit, but
what do you think your impact has been by
you beat the vast majority of the men that
you race against, the vast majority.
Do you think that's helping?
Do we need more people that are playing at
that level that can really show up and dazzle,
quite frankly?
Amelia: What I want the impact to be is to
start to normalize that conversation, because
people will say, "Oh my gosh, you got 2nd
overall," or she won that 50k outright like
it's some crazy strange thing.
That's great.
It brings attention to it, but if we keep
thinking about that as an outlier, it's not
going to shift.
We need to be like, "Look.
Dude, that woman won.
That's awesome.
That's cool.
That a woman won outright."
If we can normalize that, then that's when
I think we've really made progress.
Tom: Have you seen the studies that they've
done on "throwing a girl?"
Amelia: Some of them, but they keep emerging,
so I don't know exactly what you're saying.
Tom: Just that it's so incredible, it has
nothing to do with being a girl and it has
only to do with whether you keep throwing
or not and that boys tend to keep throwing
and girls are encouraged to go do other things
and so they just stop and that boys when they
first are throwing, throw like a girl.
It's just that sheer repetition.
When you were saying really pushing the boundaries
that that's what you would want for a young
woman, that to me, you want to talk about
getting equality in the sport.
Honestly, I think there really is only one
answer, so I always play a game with myself
like, no bullshit, what would it take?
No bullshit, what would it take for female
athletics and male athletics to be on par?
I think it takes you, it takes people like
you that show up, they play to win, they push
the boundaries, they show that they're able
to play at a level that's impressive to watch.
I look at you and I'm not inspired, because
you're a woman.
I'm inspired because you're a badass and that
it-
Amelia: That's what I want.
Not because I'm a badass, I have to feel like
I'm [sober 00:50:02].
Tom: I think you could say that.
Amelia: I want it to be regardless of gender,
that I want it to be, because you're right.
I grew up playing softball and so I'm sure
I threw like a girl at first, but I throw,
I was a pitcher and now I play softball very
well.
It's normalizing that and breaking down where
we don't see the gender anymore.
Unfortunately, to not see the gender, we almost
for a while have to be hypersensitive to it
or that's at least the realm that we're in
right now.
How do we shift from that hypersensitivity
to then being blind to it?
Tom: Yeah, so trust me, I do not wish Stephen
Hawking upon you, but the voice that you have
learned to speak in and I think other women
are going to see that and they're going to
realize that's got to be a part of the strategy,
of finding that equality is to be able to
speak out, to encourage them to push the boundary,
just to say that they can do it, that it's
a valid choice I think is going to go a long
way towards doing that, getting more people
adapting it early, developing their prowess
and then we can see really what they're capable
of doing, which is pretty incredible.
Just seeing them blossom in this endurance
events I think is really going to make people
question their own assumptions about what
women are capable of.
Amelia: Yeah, we just had an ultra runner
in Texas in this 100K.
She won it outright.
She won outright and you're seeing this more
and more.
It's one of those things to keep that conversation
going, that I think is really important.
Tom: It's amazing.
I'll be very interested to see how far we
can take this.
I hope that you certainly stay very, very
invested in the sport whether it's competing,
commentating, obviously you won't be able
to compete forever, but a voice is pretty
missed.
Amelia: I don't know.
Thinking about the endurance sports is that
you tend to peak later on.
I'm always like, "Oh, I'm 33 and I feel so
broken."
I'm like, "No, I'm still doing this as long
as it's fun and as long as my body lets me."
I'm excited for the ride.
Tom: What's the impact you want to have on
the world?
Amelia: My God, that's such a good question,
because I think that the impact that you think
that you want isn't always the impact that
you end up having.
If you'd ask me that question 10 years ago,
I would have given you a completely different
answer.
Tom: What would the answer been 10 years ago?
Amelia: It would have been, be a partner at
a law firm and have my 2.5 kids, and married.
It was listing under dream or whatever.
I realized now that what I see, what I want
to do is live authentically, live by example.
Also, what I've really learned and to know
that you don't have to fit in these boxes
and that you may not be able to have it all,
but there are opportunities there to always
pivot into reinvent yourself and that especially
for young girls is you don't have to choose.
You don't have to choose brains, you don't
have to choose beauty, you don't have to choose
strength.
You can have them all and you can incorporate
those into your life.
For me, it's not having this massive global
impact, it's the small little connections
that I make to people through all these to
the girls running those obstacle races that
are 10, 11 out there, that I can have those
impacts on those little ... those little impacts
on peoples' lives, then I think that adds
up to the big one.
Tom: That's incredible.
Where can these guys find you online?
Amelia: Twitter at Amelia Boone.
I'm on Instagram at arboone11.
Facebook, I have a website that desperately
always needs updating.
Tom: That's amazing blog content, really,
really great.
Amelia: Thank you.
Yeah, so my blog ameliabooneracing.com.
You can find it there.
I don't get to write as often as I would like,
but it's one of my favorite things.
Tom: Your blog is titled in Latin.
Amelia: It is.
Tom: What does that stand for?
Amelia: Race Ipsa Loquitur is a doctrine in
law that means, "The thing speaks for itself."
Tom: That's cool.
Amelia: It was a play on race, which is R-E-S
and then I made it R-A-C-E, yeah so I was
corporate in a little law.
Tom: That's good.
I like it.
Amelia, thank you so much for coming on the
show.
It was absolutely incredible.
Amelia: Thank you.
Thanks for having me.
Tom: All right.
Guys, you're going to want to dive into her
world on this one.
It is absolutely incredible.
What you're going to see is somebody who has
really found their voice both physically and
just from the perspective of being able to
articulate things for people.
What she does physically is unbelievable.
It will make you challenge every assumption
you have about what a human can do, let alone
what a woman can do and when you see the footage
of her crying in the ice cold river, and she
just keeps going in one of the death races,
which she has completed three times.
By the way, it is absolutely astonishing to
watch a human push the boundaries.
When she said that, "I hope that you guys
got the chills like I did," that is unbelievable
to encourage people to push boundaries.
I hope you guys are pushing the boundaries
in your life, not accepting limitations, pushing
your mind as hard as you push your body.
This is somebody who is a role model for me
to be certain and I hope as a role model for
many people.
Guys, dive in.
She will change your life if you let her.
All right, it's a weekly show, so be sure
to subscribe.
Until next time my friends.
Be legendary.
Take care.
Amelia, thank you again so much.
What a pleasure.
Amelia: Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Speaker 3: Hey, everybody.
Thanks so much for joining us for another
episode of Impact Theory.
If this content is adding value to your life,
our one ask is that you go to iTunes and Stitcher
and rate and review.
Not only does that help us build this community,
which at the end of the day is all we care
about, but it also helps us get even more
amazing guest on here to share their knowledge
with all of us.
Thank you guys so much for being a part of
this community.
Until next time.
Hope you guys enjoyed the show.
How did we do?
If you rate this transcript 3 or below, this
agent will not work on your future orders
How to Cultivate Toughness Amelia Boone on
Impact Theory
Page 2 of 20
Need Help?
mailto:support@rev.com
Get this transcript with table formatting